[Music] Good day and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the source system 2021, Food Quarter and 4-year earnings presentation call. At the exam, Open the Scipient Time, Lason, or Limout. After the speaker's presentation, the will be the question and answer session. To ask a question, during the session, you will need to press star and one on your telephone keypad. Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. If you require any further assistance over the phone please press star zero. I would now like to hand the conference over to your first speaker today, Franchois Baudonado. Please go ahead. Thank you, Nadia. Thank you for joining us on our fourth quarter and fiscal year 2021, Bernie's Conference School with Ben Ashales by Chairman and CEO, as stand at those chief operating officer and moving the demand chief financial officers. We also join us, Tharak Sherry, Chairman, that's what he's saying, the likes and answers and health care. That's what he's saying, results are prepared in a cordon. It's hyper-res. No, of the financial figures. This goes on this conference goal on a non-hyper-resquated, with revenue growth rate in constant currency and less otherwise melted. Some of our comments on this goal contain forward-looking statements, which could differ materialism. Please refer to today's press release and the risk factors section of our 2020 EU and the so-called \"Regionalism\". all earnings material are available on our website and this prepare remarks will be available shortly after this call. We are now, you're from Israel. Thank you very much for the sake. Good morning and good afternoon to all of you on Sankeu for joining us. It's always a pleasure to review our full year result with you. We had an excellent 2021 year with a strong finish to the year. The total revenue rose 11% for the year, driven by a broad based demand across our markets. The majority of which are growing double digit by the way. Our strategy grows drivers perform the well through the experience of a new increased 15% with cloud growth. We've clouded revenue rising 23%. Our 3D experience platform has been a competitive advantage driving new client wins. The cloud is about inclusiveness and providing additional value to clients. around improshing increased 26%, songs to good over new growth on high profitability. For 2022, we have said the target for 9 to 10% top line growth. As you can see, we have delivered very good results, but more importantly, we have the key elements in place to support sustainable growth. Our technology are changing the game for clients across our three major sector of the economy. We are expanding our footprint, deepening existing partnerships on adding new clients. We have invested in our team establishing the next generation of leaders. The stage is set therefore for a good future. Now I'd like to share some perspective on our vision and strategy for the coming years. You remember us 10 years ago, in February 2012, we unveiled a new prawn identity for our company, the 3D experience company, on our corporate purpose, with the run our analyzing product nature on life. Today the significance of our strategy is clear, our clients and partners have embraced the experience economy. They are transforming all sectors on industries with sustainability on human, some creativity, as central pillars of a new era. The experience economy accelerated by the pandemic triggers new categories of expectations. from citizens' passion consumers even workers. This is apparent in our everyday life. To more versed mobility is no longer a matter of vehicles. It's a matter of desirable sustainable mobility experiences. To more scale is much more than the architects, it's about the passion journey on precision medicine. To more cities are not only a collection of buildings, streets and passivities. It's about quality of life, on quality of service. As a consequence, all our clients need to re-imaginate the offer. Our answer is the systematic use of virtual twin experience based on modeling, simulation, on real world evidence in this merger between the virtual under real world. I want to be sure therefore to help our time, imagine creating produced experiences for their own clients. Unlike Metavers, we use virtual world 3D virtual world experiences to improve the real world. Only then the possibility of harmonizing product nature on life we emerge. I believe that the innovators of tomorrows, and we see them, after things in terms of universes, they are, that is to say, in terms of organic systems of systems that create produce, on play, experience, in a circular economy. With the 3D experience platform, we are creating this if we loop, we can provide this holistic view, combining value creation, on value experience, design on usage to cover the full experience life cycle. We can extend virtual twin experiences across universes. It's about continuity of the what, the offer, the how, how you make it, on the use of it by people. This is a new revolutionary approach to innovation. It's in some way the next generation of PLN. As we have done in the past with the earlier adopters, we will pave the way for the future across the three sectors of the economy we serve. Let's quickly look at implications for example in life sciences. Clinical research has moved beyond the hospitals on labs. As more and more technologies use to decentralize, tries, the entire clinical trial experience is transformed for all people involved. Persians can now participate in a trial from anywhere, especially from old. Doctors on research can now collect more data in different ways. If we connect the dots across clinical trials data, real-world data, on research on development, we can close the loop on make precision, medicine, a reality. As a consequence, elevate the passion journey. That's so system will be the only one capable of supporting end-to-end solution in life science. The ongoing advancement toward the sustainable economy will mark this century also. We can reveal some of the dynamics we see progressing. I think it's clear that our passion for science-based people-centered innovation on the commitment we have for our very loyal clients is the catalyst of that transformation. Let's have a few illustration of how we are enabling such kind of transformation today. And I think from there you will see a lot of good reasons to believe. In the consumer industry, we have a very successful partnership with IKEA. With the 3x experience by Ne platform, Kitchen, Kitchen, Planner, On the Cloud, IKEA is enabling customers to use virtualization to design their own dream teachings. The pandemic has led individuals to invest in their homes. And as acted as an accelerator for a commerce, the 3D experiment by Neatat Form Kitchen Planner has allowed Ikea to take full advantage of these trends. In some way the by-mic kitchen platform was used by 1 million people only a few months after in deployed. And today as rich over 4 million users making it the most popular 3D consumer application in the world. This is the cloud advantage, but it also, the mobile advantage. In mobility and also sector of the industry, purely is pursuing increasingly challenging goals in terms of sustainability, working on innovative materials on cutting edge production processes. They have selected smart tires on the 3DX1s platform. They will leverage the capability of the virtual twin to foster innovation, reduce cost, increase circularity, and of course they use time to market through simulation modular design. It's great to be part of Pirely's adventure to move everyone forward through technology and social progress. In the L-Scare, I could take the example of Perigo because the L-Scare affordability is becoming essential. Today, the cost of L-Scare is growing twice as fast as the overall economy. Here we go, 100-on-30 years old company has been improving passion lives with affordable, self-care products. The company is deploying several of our solutions. For example, license to Q, perfect formulation, perfect package. On our 3D experience platform, as you notice, the you are not describing the function, we are describing the value even in the way we name our solutions. The goal is to increase efficiency quality on time to market. We are very pleased to help you to help you to get positive impact on the positive. Now, you have some proof points. It's plain to see virtual twin experiences powered by the 3D experience platform, helping all our customers, evolve on transform. We recently celebrated our 40th anniversary and the system. Two generation of innovators have revealed the power of virtual works to imagine create disruptive innovation. And this is a fact in all sectors we serve. Now we are focused on our next horizon. our objective is to do is to be the leader of in sustainable innovation, on to continue to position our clients, at the one group of progress across manufacturing industries, life science on the scale as well as infrastructure on cities. To support our long-term initiatives, we have established the next generation of executive leadership. I'm so happy to have Pascal the law is now fully focused on his mission as chief of garraking officer to connect all the dots on elevate and expand the value we provide to our clients, on power, new generation of leaders along the lines that I just described. At the same time, I'm I may equally delight it to welcome Ruben Berman to the executive committee of the SOS system as chief financial officer. Ruben has played a critical role in integrating mid-Data, he has held the COO on CFO, titers, and brings a mastering of financial matters related to software on cloud business model. Over, it's wonderful to have you here. Thank you for being here. It's giving us more time to meet with customers. Ultimately, all progress is human investing on our people and culture is at the core of what we do, our M&A activities are driven by both innovation capabilities as well as talent on as you all know. After many years of observing the system, it has always been essential for us. We are focused on enabling teams to transform revealed talents. When we are quite many data in 2019, just two years ago, Tariq and I Steeam, which we share with Glenn, is body. created this incredible reason to believe that we could have a future together. I'm extremely proud of the significant innovation, strong culture, on leadership, mediator, as brought to the life science sector. We have been able to integrate, scale rapidly, actually grows on the liberal excellent result on a poor old, have fun being together. It's a great pleasure now to have online direct by body. We now the chairman of the Lifestyle sector on this KFO for the system. On TRIK, would you like to say a few words? Thank you Bernard. It's thank you for the kind words and it's really a pleasure to be with all of you today in my role, it's been a few years since I've been on an earnings call. And as you say, it's a lot of fun. So it's been more than two years since we announced coming together. And honestly, I can't be more excited about what we've been able to accomplish and the progress we've made since that time. It's been an incredibly challenging environment as you all know. integrations are never easy and doing it on a global scale is even more difficult and then doing it in the midst of a pandemic. Isn't even more difficult. But I would say that the integration has been a tremendous success and I really want to thank Bernard and Pascal for all the support that they have given us and our teams. And I don't I'd like to also thank you our teams who have come together focused on creating value for our customers and ultimately for patients. You know, our teams are delivering amazing innovation and execution to advanced clinical trial and new treatments for patients during what's been an unprecedented time. And it feels like we're just getting started given the tremendous opportunities that we see ahead of us. Our impact on improving the patient's experience and scaling precision medicine has never been clearer. You know, at the end of the day it's what Glenn and I always dreamed about and we're convinced we would be able to do one day and it's what brought us together as organizations in the first place and it's becoming a reality. As many of you know, we suffered the tragic loss of Glenn de Vries, my best friend and our co-founder late last year. He helped transform our industry and his vision has always been an inspiration for all of us. Glenn helped set the highest standards for Medi-David, did I know? And he drove us to innovate and solve the most complex problems with energy and creativity. And I am absolutely convinced that we will pursue progress in life sciences and healthcare with the same passion that he had. and we have an amazingly strong team to support that. By continuing to do everything we can do to support the business, we are honoring Glenn Fulegacy, and we will ultimately ensure help your lives for patients everywhere. We have a strong leadership in place today and they will help carry us into the future and together with Bernard and Pascal and now Ruben, I share the conviction and confidence in our promise and future. I want to hand the call back to your Bernard. Thank you, darling. Thank you my friend for your leadership. Also, the incredible moment we had all of us together when we decided in less than one hour that the future was together on that was only two years ago. So I am also confident that we can make the difference. And we have now an incredible connection between people and ten members of opportunities to provide great solutions for our customer. So with that Pascal, you are the frog. Thank you very much. Hello everyone. I hope you are doing well and thank you for joining us today. So turning to our financial results, the strong business momentum we experience throughout the year continuing to the first quarter, resulting in the performance well aligned with our guidance. So let's start with a Q4 top lines, your over your comparisons. To draw a revenue group 10% to 1 billion's 370 million, above our 7 to 9% range. The software revenue also grew 10% and all organically. Liesens and other revenues rose 15% to 340,8 million, well above the guidance and we are back to 2019 levels. Subscription and support revenue increase 8% driven by the high the budget subscription growth, reflecting strong metadata performance, but also the 3D experience momentum. and the recurring revenue represent 72% of the software revenue. Doing on services, services was up 10% and we achieved a services gross margin of 27.1% substantially better compared to last year and it's coming mainly from the effort we made to improve the efficiency when we were in the middle of the pandemic from 18 months ago. From a profitability standpoint, in the first quarter, we deliver a Q4, a strong operating margin of 36.8%. This world's well-aligned with our guidance of 36.4, when taking it to account the transient impacts of 40-bit response. EPS grew 17% to 29 cents compared to our guidance of 27 to 28 cents. Few words on the outcomes, it's an important topic. I know you have questions usually on this. So in terms of account we are well aligned with our objectives, we saw strong airing activity again in Q4, an lower truitions, an overall outcome grew 4% and research and development was up to 6%. So I think given our track ritual of innovation and our mission driven culture. We are confident in our ability to continue to attract and retain top talents over the mid to long term. And this is still a priority for 2022. Let's us take a deep dive into our revenue performance first and let's zoom on the software revenue by Geo. The America has grew 7% during the first quarter driven by solid subscription growth, which is definitively key trend in North America. In 2021, the region benefited from strong performance in eye-tech, transportation and mobility and life-sciences at large, and now America has represented 38% of the total software revenue. Europe increased 10% signed to a strong resiliency throughout the regions. And in 2021, transportation and mobility and industrial equipment grew the world-digit. Europe represented 37% of software revenue in 2021. Asia rose 12% driven by market expansion in Japan, India and South Asia. And in 2021, China grew 19% and Asia at large represent 25% of the software revenue. Let's say you work on the product line performance. In just one innovation software revenue wrote 8% to 6, and rather 82.3 million in Q4. This growth has been driven specifically by C.M. and Dan Mia where the growth is exceeding the budget. and it's mainly due to a large part to large client wins we did in Q4. In Ovia showed also a strong subscription growth which is against new trend and I think this subscription model is relatively suitable for all the collaborative set of solution we have. And Katiya finally is back to 2019 levels so I think we are again on our trajectory. LICENC is software revenue rich 245.1 million in Q4 and increase of 9%. MediData grew over 15% on the back of a strong comparison base if you remember. And we continue to see a very good momentum across the MediData portfolio, including MediData RAV, the core products, MediData AI, knows a diversification in the analytics and artificial intelligence, and related to a passion club which is the effect of standard for the decentralized clinical trial. This momentous is also visible in all the across the hand markets we are serving, so not only the pharmaceutical and biology companies but also the contract research organization and the medical devices company. So we saw high double-gigros in attached rate against this quarter which is extremely important because not only we are capturing new customers but we are growing inside those customers. From a product-line perspective we saw strong belief that apart from months was partially upset someone by a lower than expecting bio-revenue. This was driven by the delay of two large renewables but we expect to sign both renewables doing the first-alt so it's really a temporary impact. If we step back a little bit, you know, we are one year after we have decided to create the life science engagement, which is nothing more than combining all the different capabilities and resources we have to address these markets. And this has been done through the leadership of the Mededetta Management team, especially Michael Prey and for that, Michael, thank you. We did extremely well. And now we are confident that this being in place with the strategy we have to provide life science industry, an end-to-end solution that connects dots between ideation, development, manufacturing, commercializations. Almost what we did in other industry, like I always face decades ago, I think it's pretty unique on the market place and we will make the differentations. Moving now on to the mainstream innovations, software revenue, rose 14% to 312.2 million in twofold. Solid works first deliver a strong result with software revenue growing high-single digits and we continue to see other chances of our three-example works family, you know the cloud-based solution during this period. Century pre-alemic's performance extremely well. With high double digit, I should say close to triple digit revenue growth. And not only it's, you know, it's delivering the numbers, but in term of the KPIs, we are now reaching more than 550 customers representing more than 4,500 brands. And with an extreme high level of satisfaction. Not only it's true in the fashion industry, but since almost two years, Centric PM, thanks to Chris Grove, is expanding into new vertical such as the foot and the rage, cosmetic and personal care and other customer consumer segments. So, again, the replays by this move and it's paying off. Good result is also when the strategy is working. And as As you know, we have two KPIs to measure this. The first one is the drug coming from the three deexperts and the fourth full year for 2021. The three deexperts revenue goes 15%. Revalued by strong substitution growth. And now it's account for 30% of the total software revenue which is an increase of 203-201 compared to last year. In 2021, the cloud revenue, which is the other one, KPI, we are monitoring, increase 23%. Driven by the continuing lengths in life sciences of course, but not only, but also and more and more by the 3D excellence. And, cloud now account for 20% of our software revenue had 200 pages spent compared to last year. All the clients, you know, we have across all the sectors are transforming extremely rapidly and they are turning to the system to help them to adopt new business model, accelerating innovation on bracing sustainability and putting consumer patient and citizen at the sense of experience. And our strategy is really to enable them those transformations with cloud native applications, or cloud extension to an existing on-premise investment. And our 3D expense platform has been developed to make both. All those good results are also reflected into the cash flow and for the fiscal year 2021, the cash flow from a operation was 30% your over year to 1.6 million, 13.000 million, which is a converting 33% of the revenue to operating cash flow. Cash, which need to be less than 3 billion to billion 980 million, an increase of 831 billion versus an increase of 204 million last year. And finally our net financial debt position at the end of the year, decreased by 1,552 million to less than 9,5 million to be precise 890 million. And it has to be compared with a 2 billion 4 we had in December 31st in 2020. This in a net is putting us a year more than a year in fact a head of our schedule on our delivering objectives. Now to discuss the 2022 objectives, I'm very pleased to introduce Ruben Batman, our new chief financial officer and as Bernard mentioned, Ruben has played a vital role in integrating midi data and has been a real pleasure to work together for the last two years and it's a successful partnership I think. So Ruben, we are delighted to have you with us Ruben, you have the flow. And thank you, Pascal and hello everyone, also from my site. And before I would start to outline the financial objectives for 2022, I also want to share that I am thrilled and very happy to be here today with you in this new role. I really enjoyed your opportunity to meet with some of you already and learn from many colleagues at that social systems and particularly U.P.C.R.S. in the air position of many data. which as you know, is completed more than two years ago. And now with the successful integration, I'm looking forward to getting to know all of you and the broader investment community during this year. And I know we already have concrete plans to do that. So with this, let me turn to the Fulia Financial for 2022, our financial objectives. As discussed, we expect the broad-based dynamics we experience in the fourth quarter and 2021 to continue into 2022. You're focused on driving durable long-term growth. Our growth drivers are well established as highlighted by the NAN+CAR. First, we are enhancing our leadership position across our major plans. Second, we are accelerating the momentum with 3D experience and industry solution experiences and we are winning new customers as well expanding within our installed base. And third, we are focused on delivering new experience and value with cloud. So we will continue the momentum of metadata and metadata patient cloud. We will also expand the user base with a 3D experience work family in the mainstream market and deliver new value at scale with large enterprise partnerships like what you see happening with Renault or brief construction. Now with this in mind, we are targeting for full year 2022, total revenue growth of 9 to 10 percent and software revenue growth in the same range. When thinking about our software revenue growth, Let's keep in mind that last year we had a very strong year of license growth, this 23% year on year, which brought us back ahead of 2019 levels. And now for this year, you expect to continue healthy double-ditched growth at around 10% of up to 12%. Which reflects continued strong demand within our installed base. This trend is more in line with what we saw in our performance in the fourth world. We anticipate recurring software revenue to increase by 9.5%. The next generation of 100 to 150 basis points was last year. Turned by continued momentum and subscription growth with cloud and solid improvement in support revenue, also residing from the very good license growth we experienced throughout last year. For service this revenue we are projecting to grow between 8 to 9 percent, reflecting the increased activity levels of delivering innovation to our clients across all segments with solid margin performance. From a profitability perspective, this past year we demonstrated the long term scale of long term scale ability inherent to our business model. As we said through our 2021, we plan to accelerate investments into our business and re-engage activities which were impeded by the pandemic. Accelerating the growth in our workforce, in line with our long-term plan, is our top priority. And as such, we anticipate the non-NARF-RAS operating margin to be in the range of 32.7 to 33.1%. Again, this is consistent with our prior communication. Now let me continue with our proposed objectives for earnings per share. We expect non-Irofar SEPS to grow between 3 to 6% reaching 1 year at the high end. This EPS guidance assumes a text rate in line with 2021 levels of about 23.2%. Our financial objectives is you may use your $1.17. 7. Now I will provide some additional color on what to expect for Q1. As you are aware, our Vibris has some seasonality and the expect to see growth rates progressing throughout the year. You expect Q1 toward a revenue growth of 7 to 9%. This software revenue increasing in the same range and services revenue up to 5 to 7%. Turned by continued product based momentum across our GUS. We expect the operating margin at a range of 32.3% with an EPS growth of 3% to 7% versus last year. As you heard from us during this call, they are confident in the long-term opportunity ahead, and we look forward to keeping your price of all progress throughout the year. And now Pascal, I'll hand the call back to you. That you're overruns to summarize, I think, the stage is said for the future growth. On one hand, our long-term strategic vision has been validated. In investment, we made 10 years ago to a net, the expense could be uping off. And whatever you take the platform, the virtual twin experiences, the industry solution we have and the cloud, there are durable, competitive advantage. In parallel, that's what Bernard said. We are helping our clients also to transform to a sustainable economy. And this is becoming a affordable and significant opportunity to deepen and expand our partnership and our impact. This, you combine the two, will be a strong cycle of drivers to end up feeling growth across all the three sectors of the economy we are serving. In addition to this, I think we have the right leadership in place to execute the tremendous opportunity before us. And we, our commitment to clients, to drive our strategy, will continue and we thank them for their continued trust. So finally, I think, over an eye will be extremely pleased to see you in person, when we will have the ability to go back on the road, but I think it has been so long when we haven't seen each other. I think Bernard Houverne, it's correct, of course. You may be the time to take the questions. All right, sir. Thank you. The participants will now begin the question and answer session. As you remind that if you wish to ask a question, please press star and one on the telephone keypad and wait for a name to be announced. The first question comes around of Nicholas David from Odo B.H.F. to this question. Yes, hi. Good afternoon, Benar. I'm Pasca, and I'm a little bit burnt. I guess well. I'm just, obviously. Thank you for taking my question. My first one is regarding license is gross. You want to speak to double to this gross of license is in 2022. So for the second year in a row. So, Congress was happy because I think that was an ambition to sustain such a growth, the British growth of licenses. My first question is, do you think that such growth is sustainable beyond 22? And if so, also do you think that this improved growth trend in licenses is more linked to the momentum of your product cycle, so internal to your company, or more linked to the consequences of the of the send-out crisis we're leaving right now, and it's more a macro impact you are building. Of, and my second question is still regarding licensees as a self, several software players, including some of your competitors mentioned that the difficulties the clients have had in hiring, I've led to some today's in launching project and having negative impact on myself. So my question is, to what extent you may have this kind, you may suffer from this kind of impact, regarding your relationship, and the coming quarters. Thank you. Oven, you want to take the first one? Yes, happy to, happy to, yeah. So I think the best way to conceptualize this Nikola. Thank you for the question. Yes, we had in 2021. There is from licensed performance, it's 23% for the full year. You know, of course this was a lower comparable base in 2020. Q4 or 15% growth again, again, I think a good comparability, you know, Q4 of 2020 we saw the rebound starting to happen. to happen. And so it was a real proof point for us in the fourth quarter to achieve double it should go. And that trend is what we continue to forecast into 2022 with 10 to 12 percent. And I think the area, the sources of growth for that supports that underpins this assumption, is that we have well established an operating model between the capex and opx for our customers. We are serving industries where we have significant installed basis. That are transforming to the cloud to the subscription model that it will take time. And we are committed to support our customers and support them in a way where their preferences are in terms of how they want to spend and make the investment. You know, these are very sticky investments, very long-term relationships where our customers are capitalizing on their investments for decades. They continue to innovate and so that's right, value. You know, and I think with the three-day experience and the Paul by extension that we deliver, we make these investments also really valuable and ready for the future. On the second part of the question Pascalic I make. on is the client-arrange challenge having an impact on our license. I will see the total opposite way. Because the nature of our audience is changing. For years we have been all we got to you to focus on engineering, production. But now we just really experience that form. We also reach supply management, costing on many of those functions within the company. The example Adorno is really amazing in terms of size, that Toyota Motor also, a mini-ozer client, that I could name. So, the intent with the platform phenomenon, the 3D experience platform, is to reach audience that we could not reach before. As a matter of fact, you know, the 3D experience collaborative environment is now being used by clients to do so. and evaluate materials, cost, weight, supply efficiency, all based on the three universe. Not on number of networks, but on the real product itself of the way you produce it. So we see this as a long lasting growth factor on Pascal mentioned that it's not disabled in even in with our business applications that we call now on the other side. I think we're in Ovia, where we deliver business experiences, or program management, project management, costing, even for ESG reporting, or CO2 reporting, because that performance is capability. So we don't see the negative at it. That's very clear, thank you. And really one very quick follow up from my site is, when the time that you increase, sorry, that to reduce attention a bit, but do you think that you need also to increase the volume of shares granted to employees in dot to raise further the attention. So any any in the chat. Yeah. is that it's not a canonset, I was the vice chairman of the board. Because that's not on the budget side, it's on the show on the side. No, we have, I think we have a very stable, predictable, for you, for allocation. And we think that it provides a good compelling incentive for people. And we created these two gather, mother last year, which was really to provide an option for people to buy shares at a certain discount on Guanti, the result of a certain number of years. Very successfully, for successful program, but we integrated that allocation as part of the overall policy so that there is no or division, I would say. If I start if you want to. Oh, I think, you know, because I don't the first time we discussed this, I think we are extremely, we have a lot of discipline on this. Why so? Because if you want this to be long term, and not only one of, you need to integrate it in your business model. If I compare with the competitors or the peers, usually they allocate an envelope which could be sometimes three times bigger. However, I think it's not sustainable over the time. Especially if you look at the end, how much of the operating profit goes through this. I think do your job, do the sanity check, you will see its balance, its fair, its unrivaled and sustainable, and that's basically our philosophy and our principle. So you could come upon us to continue what we did in the same manner. That's clear. Thank you and congrats for the impressive set of results. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The next question comes from the land of Charles Brennan from Jeffrey. Please ask your question. Great. Good afternoon. Thanks for taking my question. Hopefully it's second time lucky. And across the industry we're seeing this cloud momentum gather pace and it's reference in your statement with some of your legacy customers moving to the cloud. So I was running for a just ask four questions related to the cloud. The first of which is just in terms of your product portfolio, can you remind us how much is native cloud versus available on the cloud via extensions? Secondly, I think you traditionally said that the move to the cloud or growth in the cloud would be largely incremental to your core business. But certainly this morning you were talking about product lines like a Navy or solid works moving to the cloud. Those are both traditional license product lines. And I'm just wondering if we're starting to get to the stage where you're starting to see traditional licenses cannibalized by the cloud. Thirdly, it feels like some of your competitors are being a lot of more progressive and driving this agenda. I'm just wondering what it would take for you to be a little bit more proactive in forcing a shift to the cloud. You're obviously doing that in the life sciences vertical. I guess Reuben's well-placed to manage a more progressive cloud transition. I'm just wondering what the catalyst would be for you to go down that route. And very lastly, on M&A, I guess traditionally we see a bigger transaction from DASO every couple of years. I guess we must be getting into the window where we're due the next one. Should we assume that any future M&A from here will be of a cloud-based business model? And is that one of the catalysts that's going to get you to the target? So having 30% of the... of the revenues in the cloud. Thank you. We could do probably the rest of the color. I have your question, Charlie, but do I want to take the first turn? I could come on and I thought I could put you on the Pascal, of course, stepping. First of all, we have Richard Point where, first of all, The cloud approach for us, a borrower, is a way to reach new category of users. Second, the cloud approach for us is about providing new delivery system for the capabilities we have, roles, process and solution. Why? Having browser native services, on mobile tablets and PCs, is a big thing for the nature of software we do. On the IKEA story, we form million users in a few months, is an illustration exactly of that. It's all going through browser-based. Same as you mentioned, chart on the sneakart drive. But we are doing that also for design. and we are doing that another matter of fact, the portfolio intro, as a return point, where we are now. There are more solutions or examples on the cloud native than we have on premise. However, I want to make sure it's clear. We love the on premise. The programs on the on premise will become private clouds. There will become absolutely private clouds. We are going to do that to do so with customers. In fact we have started to do it for highly sensitive program. Because the value of doing that is so well organized by clients. So we value this hybridation to reach the audience and provide really a 3D for all approach that will make the defense on Accelerate the platform phenomena across all functions. If you think about people now doing supply negotiation in the past, they were using ERP dashboards. Now they are looking at the product itself and they have the price on the pot. And they know where it's sourced from. It's a new word from them. We do metaverse before metaverse. Because they see what's happening. So enough said, but let's not see cannibalization. I see massive componentarity on that point. And just to echo what you say, Bernard, you were mentioning in Edovia. Again, you still have a time to understand what Edovia is about today. Edovia is not anymore on the list of product-like cycle management capabilities. It's as Bernard said, it's a set of business applications, You know, allowing the procurement to source the cost, to negotiate, to contract. Allowing program manager, to run their program to do their review, to manage their supply chain. This is what we are talking about, and it's an extension compared to what we used to do. So that's just an example, and on solid works, we are talking about the works family. We are not talking only about solid works. And the works family, you have similar works, you have then their works, you have in-of-your-works. And those set of services are not well-deployed in the mainstream market right now. On my way on the works family, they are all cloud-nitty, they are all cloud. All is no one premise anymore, all of them are all cloud. So that's the reason why it's really an extension and it's still an extension compared to... There is maybe some of our expertise quite a meeting. Now coming back to what could be the shift to force the subscription model. But that's not our way of thinking. We are here to serve our customers to transform them and to evolve their business model. So what is the point to impose your business model when it's not aligned with your customers business model? Knowing at the end, the license or subscription we are doing a good profitability with both. We will notice. So, I think our thinking process is much more the transformation of what we do will lead automatically to a subscription model. For many things we do, but we want to do it in concert with a lot of alignment with our customers. That's I think making a big difference compared to many of our competitors. And last but not least, the question of the reality to eliminate. Yeah, I mean you notice that we will be the leverage almost in six months from now. So which gives us the ability to do as or the move if we want. The cloud is not, I will say, the purpose. The purpose is ready to extend what we do, having the ability to expand the addressable market and maybe change the nature of what we do. For example, if we want to focus on the data centricity of our solutions and technology, for sure the cloud is probably the way to do it. But again, it's a means, it's not the goal. So that's what I can say at this stage. It's probably too early to speak about it and maybe I don't know at the time of the capital market day. In June, we could probably discuss much more opening to this topic. Professor Faxmerch. Thank you, Charles. Next question, please. Thank you. The next question comes from line of J. Please, Howard from Griffin Security. Please ask your question. Thank you. Hello, everyone. I'll ask all my questions at the same time, just given the time, many, I'm a call. First, could you talk about the performance in 2021 and what your expectations might be for 2022, which respect to your, two principal sales channels, which you now call CSE and CPE, you know, formerly BPMBS of course, could you comment on those two channels and anything you might be doing to invest in or alter perhaps, either of those channels. Secondly, one thing we see among a number of your principal competitors is an implementation of a plant implement, a faster product release cadence. We see this in both in CAD and Fiat LEMFLID Chapel. And I'm wondering if in lieu of your historical summer and winter releases, which which have done for many, many years, there might be some rationale for accelerating your product release cadence, particularly in alignment with your cloudy business. Thirdly on 3DX, one thing that seems to be occurring is that within the overall 3DX number, while an obvious scene still to be the largest part of it as it's been, other brands like the TAB6 are growing their contribution. contribution. If you could comment on that and whether you think that brands other than an OVM might eventually account for the majority of the treaty ex-business. And lastly, I'm pretty ex-works. I understand it's so quite early, of course, only six quarters in market. But do you think that you have any visibility to penetrating? Let's say more than 10% of the solid workspace, with treaty ex-works and thereby make it an increasingly material business. Thank you. A few clarification on the faculty, if I may, I'll be with the first of all, that's a system is providing, and not anymore, functionalities, but we are providing roles, processes, and industry solutions. So when we deliver roles, again, as a price on the roles, that is a price on the process to do the job, and we do it by industry and industry separate. This is unique on no one of the competitors are doing that. So it's important to understand it. The second thing is on the next slide. The second remark is we do six weeks cadence delivery on the cloud. So Jay please notice that for a large percentage of our install days. We are already there, every six weeks, the world is getting new capabilities on its working extremely well with an SLE which is very high on providing satisfaction. Some large companies are already there. We have to count the example of a week. It's all cloud 100%. We're all know for 3D collaborative environments suppliers. All cloud every 6 weeks, it's updated. So we are already in a big way. All cloud are following that cadence. So I think we are faster than most of the other players on that standpoint. So just topic for clarification. On last, we don't count Katya on the 3D experience like, for surpassed Kanon, we're going to explain more. We count Katya for Katya, we count. Then we are for DelMia. Each bronze for what they are, no matter if they are independent or if they are based on the 3D experience platform. So we continue to keep that integrity in the way we report. Now, on last thing about the 3D experience works, It should be noticed that outside solid works. Everything new is native cloud. Similia works is native cloud. On only cloud, for solid task customers. On we have also now a full suite of suite of solid works, optionages, that are delivered on a browser. On this explains the incredible success of cloud in China. limit on it more than in e-variors or countries because I think in China they have we had the approval to run cloud all our own licenses on on really distributed in a big way. So that's all what I want to apply for and Pascal maybe you want to put them on the channel maybe I can see if you work. So first of all, you know the the best way to assess the performance of the channel is really to look at the in command of revenue and the license is still probably a good indicator across all the different engagement model. So if you follow me on this, all of them are growing higher than 20% so when I say it's a broad base, it's really a broad base and it's what we call the process channel, it has the best performance in terms of new license this year. in 2021. So by being more close to 30 to 20%. So, and it's not the surprise when you think about it, because during the pandemic, the direct sales resisted relatively well, the main screen, the theory also, but the process, the supply chain, we are really the one being on the pressure, and we have have been able to almost catch up the like in 2020, in 2021. So I think we are really living in a good path. To complement what Bernard said on the 3D experience distributed across all the brands, you are to be a little bit careful. This is true that in Ovia, for 4A, in Ovia, almost too served of the revenue of Nvia is 3D experience based. But it's a serve more than a serve for than y'all. Also for Ketia. So it's not the only one. Okay. If I may quickly, my annual question on solid works, unit volume. My calculation is that it looks like you're 2021 solid works, new commercial seed volume was similar to perhaps slightly better than were you were in 2019. So perhaps just around 76,000 or so. And not quite that to where you were in 2018, just yet. - This is true, but with one big difference, the average seed price increase, which means we are more and more capable to enrich the package. And one of the reasons you should remember, I will say 60% of the units are coming from existing. So they are the one not buying anymore the the base package or the one buying the full package. That's the piece of reason why you also you have such a gross. It's a combination of units and a spreadsheet. I just want you. Thank you. Thank you for the head count and higher in comments. So always useful inside. Thank you, Jay. By the way, you will have a neighbor because over the family is still in New York for a few months and you will probably fly to New York in the coming weeks. So that's right. Great. I'll pick you up at the airport. Okay. Maybe later for a coffee. Next question, please. Thank you. The next question comes to an end of New Year from Redburn. Please ask the question. Hi. Thanks very much. I just have a couple of quick ones. The first one is just looking at some sales and marketing expenses and I suppose the off-ext cost ratio is in general. Quite clearly, as we've gone through the pandemic, because of the travel and also hiring. you're running with thousand marketing around about three to four hundred stations point below where we were sort of pre-pandemic. I'm just wondering would you expect over the next couple of years for that to pick up to close to the sort of 29 30% that cost ratio that we've seen in the past or other structural reasons is to why hence for thousand marketing should be at sort of a structural level. That's the first question. a little Pascal will also have to discuss so you know as the chief operating officer I learned something during the pandemic. We have been capable to grow without having more resources. And give it or not we have increased dramatically the productivity. If I compare to 19 it's per head per sense people it's more than 11%. So why I'm seeing this? Because it's going to be a combination between obviously more resources, because we need to reinforce the coverage we have in certain region of the world or certain verticals. But at the same time, I still believe we still have, we still continue to improve the productivity. Maybe we're not at this level every year, but at least a few percentage points, it's probably something we could be able to achieve. So, and this will give probably the ability for us to finance a different go to market. Because you are talking about the traditional one, but they are actually, you know, we're talking about the traditional one. where we need to invest because it's a different way to go to market and still on Brianique and we still need to invest. So the net is it will not be maybe not have a big difference. However, we have some lever to expand the different nature of the go to market. We have. That's probably very interesting. So, that's the clarify. You suggest that we will see quite an over the next couple of years. The sales and marketing cost ratio will go back up, but perhaps not back up to the 30% level or you suggest that it's more sustainable at the sort of 25 to 26% level. I don't know, it would increase because I say to you, we did not hire almost one single person each one last year. I mean, it's not sustainable. However, if you do the math, you have to include some productivity effects because we had some productivity these last two years. And now it's part of my duty to make sure that we grow the coverage, but at the same time, we are also improving the productivity. Okay, thank you. And just figuring in on, unlike science, is obviously taking all the top trees together with the growth in meditation, so far. It looks like the softness that you saw in Q4 is quite clearly with the original accelerist business. Is that a little bit surprising? That's more on the discovery side, I think, than a product. So, have you actually signed the deferral there? Or is that sort of, if you like a permit deferral, and you'll never fully recover that revenue as we go through the 2020-2022 year? Well, you look at it. I'm happy to, so you know the impact that we had in the fourth quarter's temporary. These are two renewals that they are actively working on. Two clothes and I would say early 2022. It could be the first quarter. It could be the second quarter. These are two major customers of ours that we have established relationships and it's only a question of time. I think the other part that I would like to add to the biovier business as well and life sciences, we are also aggressive retransforming by yoga towards a more subscription model and what it used to be because it was heavily dependent on life sciences and that creates some very ability from time to time. So that's another factor that we will talk about through our 2022. >> Thank you. Thank you. >> Thank you. >> One final question. Please one. >> Yes, of course. The last final question. Comfort line of Jason Selena from KBCM. Please ask the question. >> Great. Thanks for fitting me in just a couple of quick ones on a couple of the brands. First on Somalia. You know, it's nice to see double to take out there. It's been doing quite well for the past few quarters from what I can remember. You know, so my question here is, you know, the strength we're seeing, you know, from sharegain's, for this simulation, the competitive market, or is it more, you know, broader industry strength recovery, you know, from that. Simulia, I think what is there are two major factors where basically we create a game-changer situation. Number one, on the solid works in Starbase, customer way I use to use our competitor product on desktop. Now we are offering cloud-based simulia. extremely successful, easier to provision, on to put in operation, on it has created a very nice dynamic in the what we call the works family. On John Powell is doing a very great job at the Paolo Basi on the on the stopping fact is going to work on the full works family and not only so the works on we have just announced that the new CEO of solid works is Manish Kumar. but John Ollo is taking the full scope, let's suppose that the VD for 3D transactions. That's one driver. On the second one is multi-physical platform based integration, which is connecting power flow, the emag, the stress, and all of these together in a consistent environment. And we see a lot of customers moving from isolated simulation to integrate its system simulation. I think it's unstoppable in my mind. And we are plenty of opportunities to continue to sustain its phone growth in this area. - Perfect. And then maybe one quick final one. Solidworks, maybe earlier in 2021, has a pretty robust growth, possibly from the pent up the man. You know, this quarter, 8% growth, you know, feels quite good, normal, maybe close to what we were saying, and that makes, you know, that's the right way to think about the solid work business, you know, normalizing from these levels. I think so. You're right. I mean if you'll remember, so the world was really the first product line to recover. And there is no base effects compared to that here. And the 8% 829 is a good number. Okay, perfect. Thank you all and I would get up and in. Thank you everyone for participating. It's always a great pleasure to exchange with you and to let your questions on that year. No, that Pascal and Rouver are now committed to do road shows on visit you as quickly as possible and soon as possible. No, no, fully face to face with that. Thank you very much. Enjoy your day on top to you soon. [MUSIC]