"Good day and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Dassault Systemes 2021, Fourth Quarter and four year earnings presentation call. At this time, all participant are in listen-only mode. After the speaker's presentation, there will be the question and answer session. To ask a question during the session, you will need to press Star and One on your telephone keypad. Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. If you require any further assistance over the phone, please press Star Zero. I would now like to hand a conference over to a first speaker today, Francois Bordonado. Please go ahead. Thank you, Nadia. Thank you for joining us on our fourth quarter and fiscal year of 2021 earnings conference call with Bernard Charles, Vice Chairman and CEO, Pascal Daloz, Chief Operating Officer, and Rouven Bergmann, Chief Financial Officer. We also\u2026 We'll also join us Tarek Sherif Chairman, Dassault Systemes Life Sciences and Healthcare. Dassault Systemes results are prepared in accordance with IFRS. Most of the financial figures discussed on this conference call are on a non- IFRS basis with revenue growth rate in constant currency, unless otherwise noted. Some of our comments on this call contain forward-looking statements, which could defer materially from actual results. Please refer to today's press release and the risk factors section of our 2020 universal registration documents. All earnings material are available in our website, and these prepared remarks will be available shortly after this call. Bernard, the floor is yours. Thank you very much, Francois-Jose. Good morning, and good afternoon to all of you, and, uh, thank you for joining us. Uh, it's, uh, always a pleasure, uh, to review our full year result with you. We had an excellent 2021 year with a strong finish to the\u2026 to the year. The total revenue grows 11% for the year, uh, driven by a broad based demand across our end markets. The majority of which are growing double digit, by the way. Our strategy growth drivers perform well through the experience. Revenue increased 15 per- 15% with cloud revenue rising 23%. Our 3D experience platform has been a competitive advantage, driving new client wins. The cloud is a about inclusiveness and providing additional value to clients. Earning per share increased 26%, thanks to good revenue growth on high profitability. For 2022, we have set the target for 9 to 10 percent top line growth. As you can see, we have delivered very good results, but more importantly, we have the key elements in place to support sustainable growth. Our technology are changing the game for clients across our three major sector of the economy. We are expanding our footprint, deepening existing partnerships and adding new clients. We have invested in our team establishing the next generation of leader. The stage is set, therefore, for a good future. Now, I like to share some perspective on our vision and strategy for the coming years. You remember 10 years ago on February, uh, 2012, we unveiled a new brand identity for our company, the 3DEXPERIENCE Company and our corporate purpose built around organizing product nature on life. Today, the significance of our strategy is clear. Our clients and partners have embraced the experience economy. They have\u2026 They are transforming all sectors on industries with sustainability on human centricity as sample pillars of a new era. The experience economy accelerated by the pandemic triggers new categories of expectations, clearly, from citizens, passion, consumers, even workers. This is apparent in our everyday life. Tomorrow's mobility is no longer a matter of vehicles. It's a matter of desirable sustainable mobility experiences. Tomorrow's healthcare is much more than therapeutics. It's about the patient journey on precision medicine. Tomorrow's cities are not only a collection of building, streets, and facilities. It's about quality of life and quality of service. As a consequence, all our clients need to reimagine their offer. Our answer is the systematic use of virtual twin experience based on modeling, simulation, on real-world dividend, in this merger between the virtual and the real world. Our ambition, therefore, to help our client imagine, create, produce, experiences for their own clients. Unlike metaverse, we use virtual world 3D virtual world experiences to improve the real world. Only then the possibility of harmonizing product nature on life will emerge. I believe that innovators of tomorrows, and we see them have to think in terms of universes. They are, that is to say in terms of organic systems of systems that create, produce on play experience in a circular economy. With the 3D3DEXPERIENCE platform, we are creating this if we loop, we can provide this holistic view, combining value creation on value, experienced, design on usage to cover the full experience life cycle. We can extend virtual twin experiences across universes. It's about continuity of the what? The offer. The how are you make it on the use of it by people. This is a new revolutionary approach to innovation. It's in some way, the next generation of PLM. As we have done in the past with the early adopter, we will pave the way for the future across the three sectors of the economy we serve. Let's quickly look at implications. For example, in life sciences. Clinical research has moved beyond the hospitals and labs as more and more technology is used to decentralize trials. The entire clinical trial experience is transformed for all people involved. Patients can now participate in a trial from anywhere, especially from home. Doctors and researchers can now collect more data in different ways. If we connect the dots across clinical trials data, real-world data, and research on the development, we can close the loop on make precision medicine reality. As a consequence, elevate the patent journey. Dassault Systemes will be the only one capable of supporting end-to-end solution in life science. The ongoing advancement toward the sustainable economy will mark the <inaudible> also. We can reveal some of the dynamics we see progressing. I think it's clear that our passion for science-based, people-center innovation on the commitment we have for our very loyal clients is really a catalyst of that transformation. Let's have a few illustration of how we are enabling such kind of transformation today. And I think from there, you will see a lot of good reasons to believe. In the consumer industry, we have a very successful partnership with Ikea. With the 3DEXPERIENCE by Knee me platform, kin- kitchen planner on the cloud, Ikea is enabling customers to use virtualization to design their own dream kitchens. The pandemic has led individuals to invest in their homes, and has acted as an accelerator for eCommerce. The 3DEXPERIENCE by me platform kitchen planner has a allow Ikea to take full advantage of these trends. In some way, the by me kitchen platform was do\u2026 was used by 1 million people only a few months after being deployed. And today has reached over 4 million user, making it the most popular 3D consumer application in the world. This is the cloud advantage, but it's also the mob- mobile advantage. In mobility and also sector of the industry pur- purely is pursuing\u2026 is pursuing increasingly challenging goals in terms of sustainability, working on innovative materials on cutting edge production processes. They have selected smart tires on the 3DEXPERIENCE platform. They will leverage the capability of the virtual twin to foster innovation, reduce cost, increase circularity, and of course, reduce time to market through simulation modular design. It's great to be part of Purelee's adventure to move everyone forward through technology and social progress. In the healthcare, I could take the example of Perigo, uh, because the healthcare affordability is becoming essential. Today, the cost of healthcare is growing twice as fast as the overall economy. Perigo, 130 year old years old company has been improving patient life with affordable self-care products. The company is deploying several of our solutions, for example, license to cure, perfect formulation, perfect package on our 3DEXPERIENCE platform. As you noticed that you are describing the function, we are describing the value, even in the way we name our solutions. Their goal is to increase efficiency, quality, on time to market. We're very pleased to help Perigo have this positive impact. I guess they are very positive too. Now, you have some proof points. It's plain to see virtual twin experience powered by the 3DEXPERIENCE platform, uh, helping all our customers evolve and transform. We recently re- celebrating our 40 anniversary at Dassault Systemes two generation of innovators have revealed the power of virtual works to imagine, create, disruptive innovation. And this is a fact in all sectors we serve. Now, we are focused on our next horizon, 2040. Our objective is to do the\u2026 is to be the leader of in sustainable innovation and to continue to position our clients at the Vanguard of progress across manufacturing industries, life science, and healthcare, as well as in infrastructure and cities. To support our long term initiatives, we have established the next generation of executive leadership. I'm so happy to have Pascal Daloz now, fully focused on his mission as chief operating officer to connect all the dots on elevate and expand the value we provide to our clients, empower new generation of leader along the lines that I just described, at the same time, I'm equally delighted to welcome Rouven Bergmann to the executive committee of Dassault Systemes as chief financial officer. Rouven has played a critical role in integrating metadata. He has held the COO and CFO titles, and brings a mastering of financial matters related to software on cloud business model over. Rouven, it's wonderful to have you here. Thank you for being here, and giving us more time to meet with customers <laugh>. Ultimately, uh, all progress is human investing on our people and culture is at the core of what we do. Our\u2026 and many activities are driven by both innovation capabilities, as well as talent on\u2026 as you all know, after many years of observing the Dassault Systemes, it has always been essential for us. We are focused on enabling team to transform, um, reveal talents. When we acquired metadata in 2019, just two years ago, Tarek and his team, especially with, uh, Glen, his buddy, uh, created this incredible reason to believe that we could have a future together. I'm extremely proud of the significant innovation, strong culture on leadership metadata as brought to the life science sector. We have been able to integrate, scale rapidly, accelerate growth and deliver excellent result, and above all, have fun being together. It's a great pleasure now to have online, Tarek by body, uh, who is now the chairman of the Life Science sector on the scale for, for Dassault Systemes system. And Tarek, would you like to say a few words? Thank you, Bernard. It's uh\u2026 Thank you for the kind words. And, uh, it's really a pleasure to be with all of you today in, in my role. Um, it's been a few years since I've been on an earnings call, and as you say it, it's a lot of fun. Um, so it's been more than two years since we announced coming together. And honestly, I can't be more excited about what we've been able to accomplish and the progress we've made since that time. It's been an incredibly challenging environment as, as you all know, um, integrations are never easy and doing it on a global scale is you even more difficult and then doing it in the midst of a pandemic is an even more difficult. Um, but I would say that the integration has been a tremendous success, and I really want to thank Bernard and Pascal for all the support that they have given us and our teams. And I- I'd like to also thank you, our teams who have come together focused on creating value for our customers and ultimately for patients. You know, our teams are delivering amazing innovation and execution to advanced clinical trials and new treatments for patients during what's been an unprecedented time. And it feels like we're just getting started, given the tremendous opportunities that we see ahead of us. Our impact on improving the patient experience and scaling precision medicine has never been clearer. You know, at the end of the day, it's what Glen and I always dreamed about. And we're convinced we would be able to do one day. And it's what brought us together as organizations in the first place. And it's becoming a reality. As many of you know, we suffered the tragic loss of Glen de Vries, my best friend and our co-founder late last year. He helped transform our industry. And his vision has always been an inspiration for all of us. Glen helped set the highest standards for medidavid- data, and he drove us to innovate and solve the most complex problems with energy and creativity. And I am absolutely convinced that we will pursue progress in life sciences and healthcare with the same passion that he had. And we have an amazingly strong team to support that. By continuing to do everything we can do to support the business, we are honoring Glen's legacy, and we will ultimately ensure healthier lives for patients everywhere. We have a strong leadership in place today, and they will help carry us into the future. And together with Bernard and Pascal, and now Ruben, I share the conviction and confidence in our promising future. I want to hand the call back to, you Bernard. Thank you, Tarek. Thank you, my friend for your leadership, and also the incredible moment we had all of us together when we decided in less than one hour that the future was together, and that was only two years ago. So, um, I am also confident that we can make the difference, uh, and, um, we have now, uh, an incredible, um, connection between people and tremendous opportunities, uh, to provide great solutions for our customer. So with that, Pascal, you have the floor. Thank you, Bernard. Hello everyone, I hope you are doing well. And thank you for joining us today. So turning to our financial results, the strong business momentum we experienced throughout the year continue into the first quarter, visiting in the performance well aligned with our guidance. So let's start with the Q4 top lines year over year comparisons. Total revenue grew 10% to one billions, 370 millions above our 7 to 9 percent range. So software revenue also grew 10% and all organically. License and other revenues rose 15% to 348 million well above the guidance. And we are back to 2019 levels. Subscription and support revenue increase 8%, driven by the high leverage subscription growth. Reflecting strong metadata, uh, performance, but also the 3D experience, uh, momentum and, and the recurring revenue represents 72% of the software revenue. Zooming on services. Servicing was up 10%, and we achieve a services gross margin of 27.1%, substantially better compared to last year. And it's coming mainly from the effort we made to improve the efficiency when we were in the middle of the pandemic, uh, I would say 18 months ago. From a profitability stand point, in the first quarter, we deliver a Q4, a strong operating margin of 36.8%. This will well align with our guidance of 36.4. When taking into account the currency impact of 40 basis point. EPS grew 17% to 29 cents compared to our guidance of 27 to 28 cents. Few words on the account. It's an important topic. I know you have questions usually on this. So in type of account, we were\u2026 we are well aligned with our objectives. We saw strong <inaudible> activity again in Q4 and the lower attritions. And overhaul, head count grew 4% and research and development was up 6%. So I think given our track of innovation and our mission driven culture, we are confident in our ability to continue to attract and retain top talents over the mid to long term. And this is still a priority for 2022. Let's us take a deep dive into our revenue performance first, and let's zoom on the software revenue by geo. The Americas grow 7% during the first quarter, driven by subscription growth, which is a definitely, uh, key trend in north America. In 2021. The regions benefited from strong performance in iTech, transportation, and mobility and life sciences at large. And now America has represents 38% of the total software revenue. Europe increased 10%, thank to a strong resiliency throughout the regions. And in 2021, transportation and mobility and industrial equipment grew <inaudible>. Europe represented 37% of software revenue in 2021. Asia rose 12%, driven by market expansion in Japan, India, and Southeast Asia. And in 2021, China grew 19%, and Asia at large represent 25% of the software revenue. Let's say, if you work on the product line performance. Industrial innovation software revenue rolled 8% to six, uh, under rather 82.3 million in Q4. This growth has been driven specifically by <inaudible>, where the growth is exceeding the double digits. And it's mainly due to a large part to large client wins we did in Q4. In Ovia showed also a strong subscription growth, which is against new trend. And I think this subscription model is relatively suitable for all the collaborative, uh, set of solution we have. And cattier finally is back to 2019 levels. So I think we have, again, on our trajectory. Life sciences software revenue reach 245.1 million in Q4, an increase of 9%. Metadata grew over 15% on the back of a strong comparison base, if you remember. And we continue to see a very good momentum across the metadata portfolio, including metadata RA, the core products, metadata, AI know the diversity in the analytics and artificial intelligence and metadata passion cloud, which is the factor standard for the decentralized clinical trial. This, um, momentum is also visible in all the\u2026 across the hand markets we are serving. So not only the pharmaceutical and biology, um, companies, but also the contract research organization and the medical devices company. So we saw high double digits growth in attach rate against this quarter, which is extremely important because not only we are capturing new customers, but we are growing inside those customers. From a product line perspective, we saw strongly metadata performance was partially upset someone by lower and expecting bio rav- bio revenue. This was driven by the delay of two large renewal, but we expect to sign both renewal during the first half, so it's really a temporary impact. If we step back a little bit, you know, we are one year after we have decided to create the life science engagement model, which is, uh, nothing more than combining all the different, uh, capability and resources we have to address this market. And this has been done through the leadership of the metadata management team, especially, uh, Michael Pre. And for that, Michael, thank you. You did extremely well. And now we are confident that this being in place with the strategy, we have to provide life science industry and end-to-end solution that connect us between ideation, development, manufacturing, commercializations almost what we did in our industry like aerospace decades ago. I think it's pretty unique on the\u2026 on the marketplace and we will make the differentiations. Moving now on to the mainstream innovations, software revenue rose 14%, to 312.2 million, uh, in Q4. SolidWorks first deliver a strong result with software revenue growing high single digits. And we continue to see options of our 3DEXPERIENCE works family, you know, the cloud based solutions doing this period. Centric performing extremely well with a high double digit, I should say, close to triple digit- Yep. Revenue growth. And not only it's, um, you know, it's delivering the numbers, but in term of KPIs, we are now reaching more than 550 customers, representing more than 4,500 brands. And with an extremely high level of satisfactions. Not only, uh, it's true in the fashion industry, but since, uh, almost two years, um, century PMM, thanks to Chris Growth, is expanding into new vertical, such as food and beverage, cosmetic and personal care, and other customer consumer segments. So again, very pleased by this move and, uh, it's paying off. Good result is also when the strategy is working. And as you know, we have two KPIs to measure this. The first one is the drug coming from the 3DEXPERIENCE, and for the full year for 2021, the 3DEXPERIENCE revenue grow 15%, driven by strong subscription growth. And now it's account for 30% of the total software revenue, which is an increase of 200 basis points compared to the last year in 2021, the cloud revenue, which is the other one, KPIs we are monitoring, increased 23%, driven by the continuing lens in life sciences, of course, but not only, but also, and more and more by the 3DEXPERIENCE. And cloud now account for 20% of our software of revenue had 200 business per compared to last year. All the clients, you know, we have across all the sectors are transforming extremely rapidly, and they are turning to Dassault Systemes to help them to adopt new business model, accelerate innovation, embracing sustainability imperatives, putting consumer patient and citizen the center of experience. And our strategy is really to enable them those transformations with cloud native applications or cloud extension to an existing on-premise investment. And our 3DEXPERIENCE platform has been developed to make both. All those good result is also\u2026 are also reflected into the cash flow. And for the fiscal year 2021, the cash flow from operation roll 30% year-over-year to 1 billion, 630 millions, which is, uh, converting 33% of the revenue to operating cashflow. Cash reach a little bit less than 3 billion, 2 billion, 980 million, an increase of 831 million versus an increase of 204 million last year. And finally, our net financial debt position at the end of the year decreased by a billion 152 millions, to, uh, less than 900 million to be precise, 890 million. And it has to be compared with 2,000,000,004 we had in December, uh, 31st in 2020. This, in a net is putting us a year, more than a year in fact, ahead of a our schedule on our delivering objectives. Now, to discuss the 2022 objectives, I'm very pleased to introduce Rouven Bergmann, our new chief financial officer. And Bernard mentioned, Rouven has played a vital role in integrating metadata and it has been a real pleasure to work together for the last two years. And it's a successful partnership, I think. So Rouven, we are delighted to have you with us over to you on the floor. Thank you, Pascal, and hello everyone also from my side. And before I would start to outline um, the financial objectives for 2022, uh, I also want to share that I'm, um, thrilled and very happy to be here today with you, uh, in this new role. I've really enjoyed the opportunity to meet with some of you already and learn from many colleagues at Dassault Systemes, in particular UPAS cars, since the acquisition of Metadata, which, you know, as you know, you've completed more than two years ago. And now, uh, with the successful integration, I'm looking forward to getting to know all of you, and the broader investment communities during this year. And I know we already have concrete plans to do that. So with this, uh, let me turn to the full years financials for 2022, our financial objectives. As discussed, we expect the broad-based dynamics we experienced in the fourth quarter and 2021 to continue into 2022. We are focused on driving durable, long-term growth. Our growth drivers are well-established as highlighted by Bernard and Pascal. First, we are enhancing our leadership position across our major brands. Second, we are accelerating the momentum with 3DEXPERIENCE and industry solution experiences, and we are bringing new customers as well as expanding within our installed base. And third, we are focused on delivering new experiences and value with cloud. So we will continue the momentum of metadata and metadata patient cloud. We will also expand the user base with the 3DEXPERIENCE Works family\u2026 Works family in the mainstream market and deliver new value at scale with large enterprise partnerships, like what you see happening with Reno or <inaudible>. Now, with this in mind, we are targeting for full year 2022, total revenue growth of 10\u2026 9 to 10 percent and software revenue growth in the same range. When thinking about our software revenue growth, let's keep in mind that last year, we had a very strong year of license growth with 23% year on year, which brought us back ahead of 2019 levels. And now for this year, we expect to continue healthy double digits growth at around 10 of up to 12 percent, which reflects continued strong demand within our installed base. This trend is more in line with what we saw our performance in the fourth quarter. We anticipate recurring software revenue to increase by nine to 9.5%. An acceleration of 100 to 150 basis point was this last year driven by continued momentum and subscription growth with cloud and solid improvement in support revenue. Also, resulting from the very good license growth we experienced throughout last year. For services revenue, we are projecting to grow between 8 to 9 percent, reflecting the increased activity levels of delivering innovation to our clients across all segments with solid margin performance. From a profitability perspective, this past year, we demonstrated the long term scalab- long term scalability inherent to our business model. As we said through 2021, we plan to accelerate investments into our business and reengage in activities which were impeded by the pandemic. Accelerating the growth in our workforce in line with our long term plan is our top priority. And as such, we anticipate the non IFRS operating marching to be in the range of 32.7 to 33.1 percent. Again, this is consistent with our pri- with our prior communication. Now, let me continue with our proposed objectives for earnings per share. We expect non IFRS EPS to grow between 3 to 6 percent, reaching one Euro at the high end. This EPS guidance assumes a tax rate in line with 2021 levels of about 23.2%. Our financial objectives assume a Euro to US dollar conversion of 1.17. Now I will provide some additional color on what to expect for Q1. As you are aware, our business has some seasonality and we expect to see growth rates progressing throughout the year. We expect Q1 total revenue growth of 7 to 9 percent, with software revenue increasing in the same range and services revenue up 5 to 7 percent driven by continued broad based momentum across our geos. We expect the operating margin at a range of 32.3 to 33 percent with an EPS growth of 3 to 7 percent, versus last year. As you heard from us during this call, We're confident in the long of opportunity ahead, and we look forward to keeping you abreast of our progress throughout the year. And now, Pascal, I'll hand the call back to you. Thank you, Rouven, for\u2026 to summarize. I think, the stage set for the future of growth. On one hand, our long term strategic visions has been validated. Investment we made 10 years ago to a net, the experience economy are paying off. And whatever you take, the platform, the virtual twin experiences, the industry solution we have in the cloud, they are durable, competitive advantage. In parallel, that's what Bernard say, we are helping our clients also to transform to a sustainable economy. And this is becoming an affordable and significant opportunity to deepen and expand our partnership and our impact. This, if you combine the two, will be a strong secular of hybrids to underpinning growth across all the three sectors of the economy we are serving. In addition to this, I think we have the right leadership in place to execute against the tremendous opportunity before us and we\u2026 our commitment to clients to drive our strategy will continue, and we thank them for their continued trust. So finally, I think, uh, Rouven and I will be extremely pleased to see you in-person when we'll have the ability to go back on the road. But I think it has been so long when we haven't seen each other. I think be Bernard, Rouven, it's direct, of course, you remember the time to take care, uh, of the questions. Operator? Thank you. The participants will now begin the question and answer session. As a reminder, if you wish to ask a question, please press Star and One on your telephone keypad and wait for a name to be announced. The firs question comes from a line of Nicholas David from Odo BHF. Please ask the question. Yes, hi. Good afternoon, Bernard, Pascal and Rouven, Nadia as well, obviously. Thank you for taking my, my question. Um, my first one is regarding licenses gross. Um, you aren't expecting double digit growth, um, of licenses in 2022. So for the second year in a row, uh, so congrats for that, because I think that, uh, that was an ambition, uh, to sustain such a growth, uh, the growth of licenses. Um, my first question is, do you think that such growth is sustainable beyond 22? And, uh, if so, uh, also, do you think that this improved, uh, growth trend in licenses, uh, is more linked to, um, the momentum of your project cycle, uh, so internal to your company? Or more linked to the consequences of the, of the\u2026 of the same CREs we just, uh, we are living right, now and it's more macro impact, uh, you are benefiting, uh, of? Um, and my second question is, um, still regarding licenses, sales, uh, several, uh, software players, including some of your competitors mentioned that the difficulties the client have had in hiring, uh, have led to, to some delays in launching project and having negative impact on license sales. So my question is, uh, to what extent, uh, you may have this kind\u2026 you may suffer from this kind of, of impact, uh, regarding your, your, your license sales in the coming quarters. Thank you. Rouven, you want to take the, the first one? Yeah. Happy to, happy to. Um, yeah, so I think the best way to conceptualize, uh, this, uh, Nicholas, thank you for the question is, um, yes, we had in 2021 very strong, licensed performance with 23%, uh, for the full year. Um, you know, of course this was, uh, was obviously a lower comparable basis 2020, Q4 or 15% growth again- against I think a, uh, uh, a good, uh, comparability, you know, Q4 of 2020, we saw the rebound starting to happen. And so it was a real proof point for us in the fourth quarter, um, to achieve double digit growth. And that trend is what we continue to forecast into 2022, uh, with 10 to 12%. And I think, uh, the area\u2026 the, the sources of growth for\u2026 um, that supports that underpins this assumption is that, you know, we have well-established an, an operating model between CapEx and OPEX, for our customers. Uh, we are serving industries where we have significant installed bases, uh, that are transforming to the cloud to the subscription model, but it will take time. And, uh, we are committed to support our customers, um, and support them in a way what their\u2026 what their preferences are in terms of how they want to spend, um, and make the investments. Um, you know, these are very sticky investments, uh, very, uh, long term relationships where our customers are capitalizing on their investments for decades, uh, that we continue to, uh, to innovate and, um, and further drive value, you know. And I think with the 3DEXPERIENCE and the power by extension that we deliver, we make these investments also really valuable and ready for the future. On the second part of the question, Pascal, if I may, uh, um, on, um\u2026 uh, is the, the client and hiring challenge having an impact on our license? I\u2026 we see it the total opposite way because the nature of our audience is changing. Um, for years we've been, or we continue to focus on engineering production, but now we just really experienced platform. We also reach, uh, supply management, costing, uh, on many other functions within the company. The example, uh, <inaudible> is, is really amazing in terms of size at, uh, Toyota motor also, and many other clients that I could name. So the intent with the platform phenomena, the 3DEXPERIENCE platform is to reach audience that we could not reach before. Uh, as a matter of fact, you know, the, the 3DEXPERIENCE collab, collaborative environment is now being used by clients to evaluate materials, cost, weight, supply efficiency, all based on the three universe, not on number of dashboards, but on the real product itself of all the way you produce it. So we see this as a\u2026 as a long lasting, uh, growth factor on, uh, Pascal mentioned that it's noticeable in, even in with our business applications that we call now on the, uh, a category of Innovia where we deliver business experiences for program management, project management, costing, even for ESG reporting, um, or CO2 reporting because the, the platform has this capability in short. So we don't see the negative effect. That's, uh, that's very clear. Thank you. And maybe one, one very quick from my side is, um, understand that you increase, uh, salaries, um, to reduce a bit, but do you think that you would need also to increase the volume of, of, of, of shares granted to employees to reduce further their at tuition? So any, any insight about- I think we have- Please, please-\u2026 or give vice chairman of the board because <laugh>, uh, that's not on the bugdet side is on the shoulder side <laugh>. Uh, no\u2026 we have\u2026 we have, I think we have a very, uh, stable, uh, uh, predictable, uh, portfolio of, uh, allocation. And we think that, um, it, it, it, it provides a good, compelling, um, incentive for people on, uh, we created this together model, uh, last year, um, which we was really to provide, uh, an plan for people to buy a shares at a certain discount on, on guarantee the result over first few, certain number of years, very successfully, uh, successful program. But we integrated, integrated that allocation as part of the overall policy. So, so the no deviation, I would say if Pascal, you want to add something. No, I think, uh, well, you know, Nicholas, not the first time we discussed this, I think we are extremely\u2026 We have a lot of discipline on this. Why, so, because if you want this to be, uh, long term and not only a one off, you need to integrate it in the new\u2026 in your business model. If I compare with the competitors or the peers, usually, uh, you know, they allocate, uh, an envelope, which could be sometimes three times bigger. However, I think it's not sustainable over the time. Especially if you look at, at the end, how much of the operating profits grows through this. I think, do your job, do the sanity check, you will see it's balance, it's fair, it's agreeable and sustainable. And that's basically our philosophy and our, uh, principle. So, so you could count us to continue what we did in the same, uh, the same manner. That's clear. Thank you, and congrats for the set of results. Thank you Nicholas. Thank you Nicho. Thank you. The next question comes to line of Charles Brennan from Jeffery's. Please ask your question. Great, good afternoon. Thanks taking my question. Hopefully, it's second time, lucky <laugh>. Across the industry, we're seeing this cloud momentum gather pace, and it's referenced in your statement with some of your legacy customers moving to the cloud. So I was wondering if I could just ask four questions related to the cloud. The first of which is just in terms of your product portfolio, can you remind us how much is native cloud versus available on the cloud via extensions? Secondly, I think you've traditionally said that the move to the cloud or, or growth in the cloud would be largely incremental to your core business, but certainly this morning, you were talking about product lines, like a Naver and SolidWorks, moving to the cloud. Those are both traditional licensed product lines. And I'm just wondering if we're starting to get to the stage where you're starting to see traditional licenses cannibalized by, by the cloud. Thirdly, it feels like some of your competitors are being a little bit more progressive in driving this agenda. I'm just wondering what it would take for you to be a little bit more proactive in enforcing a shift to the cloud. You're obviously doing that in the life sciences vertical, uh, I guess Rouven's well placed to, to manage a, a more progressive cloud transition. Uh, I'm just wondering what the catalyst would be for you to go down that route. Uh, and very lastly, uh, on MNA uh, I guess traditionally we see a bigger transaction from Dassault every couple of years. Uh, I, we must be getting into the window where we're due the next one. Should we assume that any future MNA from here will be of a, a cloud-based business model, uh, and is that one of the catalysts that's gonna get you to the target of having 30% of the, uh, of the revenues in the cloud? Thank you. Well, we could do probably the rest of the call on your question, Charlie. But Bernard, you want to take the first one? I, I could on the product portfolio, on the Pascal of course stepping. Uh, first of all, we have reach a point where\u2026 Um, first of all, the cloud approach for us above all, is a way to reach new category of users. Second, the cloud approach for, for us is about providing new delivery system for the capabilities we have, roles, process, and solution. Why? Having browser native services on mobile tablets and PCs is a big thing for the nature of software we do. And the Ikea story with 4 million users in a few months is an illustration exactly of that. Uh, it's all going through browser based, uh, same as you mentioned, uh, sharp on the, uh, on the, um, clinical trial, okay. Uh, but we are doing that also for design and we are doing that\u2026 And as a matter of fact, the portfolio in short as we reach a point where, where now\u2026 uh, there are more solutions, products and roles on the cloud native than we have on premise. However, I want to make sure, uh, it's clear. We love the on-premise. There are programs on the on-premise will become private clouds. They will become absolutely private clouds. Uh, and we are going to do that to do so with customers. In fact, we have started to do it for highly sensitive program because, uh, the, the value of doing that is, is so well recognized by, by clients. So we value this hybridation to reach the audience and provide really a 3D for all approach, um, that will make the difference and accelerate the platform phenomena across all functions. If you think about people now doing supply negotiation, in the past they were using, um, ERP dashboards. Now they are looking at the product itself and they have the price on the part, and they know where it's sourced from. It's, it's a new world from there. We metaverse before metaverse because they see what's happening. So enough said, but they don't seek an validation. I see massive compramodality, uh, on that, on that point. And just to, to echo what you say, Bernard, you were mentioning Innovia. Again, you still have asked time to understand what Innovia is about today. Innovia is not anymore product life cycle management capability. It's as well say, it's a set of business applications, you know, allowing the procurement to source, to cost, to negotiate, to contract, allowing program manager, to run the program, to do their review, to supply chain. This is what we are talking about, and it's an extension compared to what we used to do. So that's just an example. And on SolidWorks, we are talking about the works family. We are not talking only about SolidWorks. And the works family, you have familiar works. You have Demia works, you have, uh, Innovia works. And those, those, um, set of, uh, services are not, uh, well deployed in the mainstream market right now. And by the way, under works family, they are all cloud. They are on cloud. So there's no on premise anymore. All of them? Are all cloud. All of them. So that's the reason why, you know, it's really an extension and it's still an extension compared to\u2026 There is maybe some overlap that is quite limited. Now, coming back to what could be the shift to force the subscription model, but that's not our way of thinking. We are here to serve our customers, to transform them and to evolve their business model. So what is the point? To impose your business model when it's not aligned with your customer's business model, knowing at the end, the license or subscription we are doing, uh, I mean, good profitability with both, you will notice. So I think our thinking process is much more the transformation of what we do. We lead automatically to a subscription model for many things we do, but we want to do it in with a\u2026 with a lot of alignment with our customers. That's I think making a big difference compared to many of our competitors. And last but not least the question related to MNA, yeah. I mean, you notice that we will be leverage, uh, almost, uh, in six months from now. So, which gives us the ability to do a, uh, all the move, if we want. The cloud is not the, I will say the purpose. The purpose is ready to extend what we do, uh, having the ability to expand the addressable market and maybe change the nature of what we do. For example, if we want to focus on the data centricity of our, uh, solutions and technology, for sure, the cloud is probably the way to do it, but again, it's a means, it's not the goal. So that's what I can say at this stage. It's probably too early to speak about it. And maybe, I don't know, at the time of the capital market there, in June we could probably discuss much more open to this topic. Perfect. Thanks so much. Thank you. So next question, please. Thank you. The next question comes to line of JBlish Howard from Griffin securities. Please ask your question. Um, thank you. Hello everyone. Um, I'll ask all my questions at the same time, uh, just, uh, given me the time remaining on the call. Um, first, um, could you talk about the performance in 2021 and what your expectations might be for 2022, with respect to your two principal sales channels, would you now call CSE and CPE in know formally BT and VS, Of course? Could you comment on, uh, those two channels and anything you might be doing to, uh, uh, invest in or alter perhaps, uh, either of those channels? Um, secondly, one thing we see among a number of your principal competitors, uh, is a, uh, implementation of, or plan to implement, uh, a faster product release cadence. We see this in both in CAD and PLM, for example. And I'm wondering if in lieu of your historical summer and winter releases that you've done for for many, many years, there might be some rationale for accelerating, um, your product release, uh, cadence, particularly in, uh, in alignment with, uh, with your cloudy business. Um, thirdly, on, um, 3DX. Um, one thing that seems to be occurring is that within the overall 3DX number, while ANOVIA seems to able to be the largest part of it as it's been, um, other brands like <inaudible>, are growing their contribution. If you could comment on that and whether you think that brands other than INNOVIA might eventually account for the majority of the 3DX business. And lastly on 3DX works, uh, I understand still quite early, of course, only six quarter market. Um, but do you think that you have any visibility to, uh, penetrating, let's say more than 10% of the SolidWork space, uh, with 3DX works and thereby make it an, an increasingly, uh, material business. Thank you. A few clarification Pascal, if I may put\u2026 uh, first of all, Dassault Systemes is providing\u2026 not anymore functionalities, but we are providing roles, processes on industry solutions. Uh, so when we deliver roles, there is a price on the roles. There is a price on the process to do the job, and we do it by industry and industry segment. This is unique and no one of the competitors are doing that. Uh, so it's important to understand it. Uh, the second thing is I, uh, on a\u2026 and then I will let Pascal on the general performance. The second remark is we do six weeks scale on delivery on the cloud. So Jayblish, please notice that for a large percentage of our install base, we are already there every six weeks, the world is getting new capabilities and it's working extremely well with an <inaudible>, which is very high, um, on providing satisfaction. Some large companies are already there. Uh, uh, we have taken the example Wig, which it's all cloud a 100%. Rannovo for 3D collaborative environment suppliers, all cloud, every six weeks it's updated. So we are already with this, uh, in, in a big way, all cloud are following that cadence. So I think we are faster than most of the other players on that standpoint. So just topic for clarification. On last remark we don't, we don't count\u2026 catch on the 3D experience line for who can explain more. We count chache for chache. We count <inaudible> each branch for what they are, no matter if they are independent or if they are based on the 3D experience platform. So we, we continue to keep that, uh, uh, integrity in the way we report. Now the last thing about the 3DEXPERIENCE works, it should be noticed that outside works, everything new is native cloud. Uh, similar works is native cloud on only cloud for <inaudible> for customers. And we have also now a full suite of\u2026 suite of, uh, 3D\u2026 of SolidWorks functionalities that are delivered on a browser. And this explains the incredible success of cloud in China, believe it or not, more than in any of our countries, because, I think in China, they have\u2026 uh, we have the approval to run cloud or own licenses and, and really distribute in a big way. So that's all what I wanted to clarify on, and Pascal, maybe you want to put some more on- On the channel, maybe I can see if you words. So first of all, you know, the, the, the best way to assess the performance of the channel is really to look at the incremental revenue and the license is still probably a good indicator across all the different engagement model, right? So if you\u2026 if you follow me on this, uh, all of them are growing highers than 20%. So when I say it's a broad base, it's really a broad base. And, and, and it's, uh, the\u2026 what we call the process channel, which has the best performance in term of license this year in 2021. So by, uh, being much more close to 30 than 20%. So\u2026 and it's not a surprise when you think about it, because during the pandemic, uh, the direct sales resisted relatively well, the mainstream, the theory also, but the process, the supply chain, we really the one being on the pressure. And we have been able to almost, uh, catch up the, like, uh, in 2020 in 2021. So I think, uh, we are relatively on a good path. To compliment what Bernard said on the 3DEXPERIENCE, uh, distributed across all the brands, uh, you, you have to be a little bit careful. This is true. That Innovia or before Innovia, almost to serve of the, of Innovia is 3DEXPERIENCE based, but it's a serve more than a serve for Innovia, also for Ktea. So it's not the only one. Okay. Um, if I may quickly\u2026 uh, my annual question on Solidwork unit volume, uh, my calculation is that it looks like your 2021 SolidWorks new commercial seed volume was similar to, perhaps slightly better than where you were in 2019. So perhaps just around 76,000 or so, and not quite back to where you were in 2018, just yet. This is true, but with one big difference, the average price increased, which means we are more and more capable to enrich, uh, the package. And one of the reasons you, you should remember J, um, I will say 60% of the units are coming from existing customers. So they are the one not buying anymore the, the base package, are the one buying the full package. That's basically the reason why also you have such a growth, it's a combination of units and price. Value up. Yes. Okay. Uh, also by the way, thank you for the, uh, headcount and hiring comments that, uh, always useful insight. Thank you J. By the way, you will have a neighbor, uh, because, uh, Hoover, uh, family is still in New York for a few months and he will probably fly, uh, to New York in the coming weeks. So that's right. Great. I'll pick you up at the airport, you know. Okay <laugh>. Maybe later for a coffee. Next question, please. Thank you. The next question comes to line of Neil Steel from Redburn. Please ask your question. Hi, thanks very much. I just have a, a couple of quick ones. Uh, the first one is just looking at, um, sales and marketing, uh, expenses, and I suppose the OPEX cost, uh, ratios in general. Uh, quite clearly, uh, as we've gone through the pandemic because there's travel and also, uh, hiring, um, you've, you, you are running with thousand marketing at around about 3 to 400 basis points below where we were sort of pre pandemic. I'm just wondering, would you expect over the next couple of years for that to pick up to closer to the sort of 29 / 30 percent, uh, cost ratio that we've seen in the past, or are there structural reasons as to why hence for thousand marketing, uh, should be at sort of a, a structural lower level? That's the first question? Rouven, Pascal, will attend to this question. So, you know, as, uh, the chief operating officer, I, I learned something during the pandemic. We have been capable to grow without having, uh, more resources. And believe it or not, we have increased dramatically the productivity. If I compared to ' 19 it's per head per salespeople, it's more than 11%. So, so why I'm saying this, because it's gonna be a combination between obviously more resources, uh, because we need to reinforce, uh, the coverage we have in certain region of the world or certain verticals. But at the same times, I still believing we still have\u2026 uh, we still, we still can continue to improve the productivity maybe not at this level every year, but at least a few, uh, percentage point. it's probably something we could, uh, be able to achieve. So\u2026 And this will give probably the ability for us to finance a different go-to market. Cause, uh, you\u2026 we are talking about the traditional one, but there are activities where we need to invest because it's a different way to go to market and still on-brand unique and we still need to invest. So, so the net is, uh, it'll not be maybe\u2026 uh, do not have a big difference. However, we have some level to extend, uh, the different nature of the go-to market we have. That's probably the way- <inaudible>, So, so just to clarify you suggesting that we will see quite a\u2026 over the next couple of years, sales and marketing cost ratio will go back up, but perhaps not back up to the 30% level, or are you suggesting it's more sustainable at the sort of 25, 26% level? No, no. It will increase because as I say to you, uh, we did not hire a, almost one single person each one last year. Okay. I mean, it's not sustainable. However, if you do the math, you have to include some productivity effect because we had some productivity the last two years, and now it's part of my duty to make sure that we grow the coverage, but the same time we are also improving the productivity. Okay. Thank you. And just, um, zeroing in, on, on life sciences, obviously, um, taking all of the commentary together with, uh, regards to the growth in metadata and so forth. Um, it looks as though the softness that you saw, uh, in Q4 was quite clearly with the sort of the original seller businesses. Um, is that a little bit surprising? That's more on the discovery side, I think their product set. And have you actually signed the deferral there? Uh, or is that sort of, uh, if you like a permanent deferral and you'll never fully recover that revenue as we go through the 2020\u2026 uh, 2022 year? Well, you- Yeah, happy, happy to\u2026 so, uh, you know, the impact that we had in the, in the fourth quarter is temporary. Um, these are two renewals, uh, that we are actively working on, um, too close in, I would say early 20, 22, uh, it could be the first quarter. It could be the second quarter. Yeah. Uh, these are two major customers of ours where we have established relationships. And it's only a question of time. Um, I think the other part that I would like to add to the Biovia, uh, uh, business as well and life sciences, we are also aggressively transforming Biovia to- towards a more subscription model than what it used to be, because it was heavily dependent on licenses and that could it some variability from time to time. So that's another factor, um, that we will, um, talk about throughout 2022. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. One final question, please go on, uh, Nadia. Yes, of course. The last final questions come from the line of Jason Similia from KCBM. Please ask the question. Great. Thanks for fitting me in just a couple quick ones on a couple of the brands. Uh, first on Same, you know, it's nice to see double-digit growth there. It's been doing quite well for the past few quarters from what I can remember, you know, so my question here is, you know, is the strength we're seeing, you know, from share gains versus, you know, simulation competitive market, or is it more, you know, broader industry strength, uh, recovery, you know, from, from that? Similia, uh, I think, uh, what is be- there are two major factors where basically we create a game-changer situation. Number one, under SolidWorks, install base customer may use\u2026 to use our competitor, uh, product, uh, on desktop. Uh, now we are offering cloud-based Similia, extremely successful, easier to provision and to put in operation. And it has created a very nice dynamic in the, what we call the works family. Uh, John Paulo is doing a very great job on, on, on the topic, going to work, uh, on the full works family and not only SolidWorks. And we have just announced that the new CEO of SolidWorks is, uh, Manish Kumar. Uh, but, uh, John Paulo is taking the full scope responsibility for 3D expense works. Uh, that's one driver on the second one is new multi-physics platform based integration, which is connecting, um, you know, the power flow, uh, the E mag, the stress, and all of this together in a consistent environment. And we see a lot of customers moving from, uh, isolated simulation to integrated system simulation. Uh, I think it's unstoppable in my mind and we have plenty of, uh, opportunities to continue to sustain a strong growth in this area. Perfect. And then maybe one quick final one, you know, SolidWorks, um, maybe earlier in 2021 had some pretty robust growth, you know, possibly from the pent up demand, you know, this quarter 8% growth, you know, feels quite good, normal, maybe close to what we were seeing pre-pandemic, you know, is that the right way to think about the SolidWorks business, you know, normalizing from these levels? I think so you're right. I mean, if you remember\u2026 so the works was really the first product line to cover. Yep. And, uh, there is no base effect compared to that year, and 8%, 8 to 9 is a, is a good number. Okay, perfect. Thank you all. And have a good afternoon. Thank you everyone for participating. It's always a great pleasure to, uh, exchange with you and advise your questions. And, uh, yeah know that, uh, Pascal and Houven are now committed to do roadshows and, uh, visit you as quickly as possible, as soon as possible and hopefully face to face. With that, thank you very much. Enjoy your day and talk to you soon. That does conclude our conference for today. Thank you for participating. You may all disconnect. Have a nice day.
